docs/panel/users.md, before:

---
tags:
  - Administrator
---

title: Users
description: How to manage users in Flotiq.

This page describes how to manage **Users**, including your own settings, using [Flotiq Dashboard](https://editor.flotiq.com){:target="_blank"}. 

!!! hint
    Only a user Role headless admin can manage other users in Flotiq project. If you do not have the required role, you will not be able too see the `Users` tab.

To manage users, navigate to `Manage Spaces` or `Organization Settings`.

![](images/ManageSpaces.png){: .center .width75 .border}

## Listing users

Click `Users` in the menu on the left to get to users list:

![](images/UsersMenu.png){: .center .width75 .border}

If you don't have any new user added, you will see only your own user on the list.

![](images/UserList.png){: .center .border}

## Adding new User :fontawesome-solid-triangle-exclamation:{ .pricing-info title="Limits apply" }[^1]

You can add more team members to your Flotiq project by clicking the `Invite User` button in the Users tab, which opens user editor.

![](images/AddUserMenu.png){: .center .border}

When adding new user you have to define its: Email, Name, and Password. After saving, there will be registration verification email sent to the email you entered.

![](images/NewUserVerificationEmail.png){: .center .border}

Once new user verifies his email, he will be asked to enter a new password and the process of adding a new team member will be completed.

## Editing users

When browsing users list in `Users` tab from the left panel, you can make changes to your user by clicking the pencil icon, which will open the `Edit User` tab.

![](images/EditUser.png){: .center .width75 .border}

Here you can change your settings, like your name and password, but also edit your email subscription preferences, or the user.

[^1]: Number of available Team Members depends on the chosen subscription plan. Check pricing and limits [here](https://flotiq.com/pricing){:target="_blank"}

Commit message:

#26954 update user invitation documentation and dashboard screens

docs/panel/users.md, after:

---
tags:
  - Administrator
---

title: Users
description: How to manage users in Flotiq.

This page explains how to manage **Users**, including your own settings, using the [Flotiq Dashboard](https://editor.flotiq.com){:target="_blank"}. 

!!! hint
    Only a user Role headless admin can manage other users in Flotiq project. If you do not have the required role, you will not be able too see the `Users` tab.

To manage users, navigate to `Manage Spaces` or `Organization Settings`.

![](images/ManageSpaces.png){: .center .width75 .border}

## Listing users

Click `Users` in the menu on the left to get to users list:

![](images/UsersMenu.png){: .center .width75 .border}

If you don't have any new user added, you will see only your own user on the list.

![](images/UserList.png){: .center .border}

## Adding new User :fontawesome-solid-triangle-exclamation:{ .pricing-info title="Limits apply" }[^1]

You can invite more team members to your Flotiq project by clicking the `Invite User` button in the Users tab, which opens user editor.

![](images/AddUserMenu.png){: .center .border}

When adding new user you have to define its: Email and Name. After saving, an invitation email will be sent to the provided address.

![](images/NewUserVerificationEmail.png){:.width50 .center .border}

Once the new user accepts the invitation, they will be prompted to set a password, completing the onboarding process.

![](images/NewUserEnterPswd.png){: .center .border}

## Editing users

When browsing users list in `Users` tab from the left panel, you can make changes to your user by clicking the pencil icon, which will open the `Edit User` tab.

![](images/EditUser.png){: .center .width75 .border}

Here you can change your settings, like your name and password, but also edit your email subscription preferences, or the user.

[^1]: Number of available Team Members depends on the chosen subscription plan. Check pricing and limits [here](https://flotiq.com/pricing){:target="_blank"}
